I hope you had a chance to interface with turtlebot with
a G-mapping package to build the map of the Willow Garage environment.
If not, follow along with this video,
as I'll walk you through the steps of performing snap with your turtlebot.
Feel free to pause this video at any time and refer to the steps in the instructed notes.
Now, let's jump back in our virtual machine.
First, I'll open the terminal,
navigate the source directory of my catkin work space,
and clone the package.
Then, install its system dependencies and finally,
with the catkin workspace.
Now that you have all the required packages in your workspace, let's launch the nodes.
In this terminal, source your workspace.
And as we did earlier,
launch the turtlebot gazebo node in a Willow Garage environment.
Open another terminal, again source your workspace,
and launch the keyboard teleop node,
don't move your robot yet.
To understand the G-mapping node,
open a third terminal,
source the workspace, and run the node.
Your node should now be registering the first scan.
Now, in a new terminal, run rviz,
to subscribe to different published topics and visualize the map.
In rviz, change the fixed frame to base link,
then change the reference frame to odom.
Add the RobotModel. To visualize the environment, add
a Camera and change the topic to the RGB1.
Finally,
add the Map and select the map topic.
The first section of the map is now appearing.
Now, map the Willow Garage environment
by driving your robot around with a keyboard teleop commands.
After you are satisfied with the result,
navigate your desktop and save a copy of the map by running the map server command.
Feel free to experiment SLAM with
different environments and share the image of the map with your classmates.